# JavaScript Engine and Runtime

## JavaScript Engine

The JS Engine is a program that executes the JS code. The JS Engine comprises of CallStack and Heap

1. Call Stack:
   The place where code is actually executed, using execution context.
2. Heap:
   The heap is unstructured memory pool, which stores all the objects which are application needs.

# Compilation and Interpretation

Computer program needs to be converted into 0's and 1's, which is achieved by compilation and interpretation.

1. Compilation:
   Entire code is converted into machine code at once by a compiler, and written into a portable binary file that could be executed by a computer.
   Source code ---> Compilation ---> Machine code(not a portable file) ---> Execution(way after compilation) ---> Program running

2. Interpretation:
   Interpreter runs through the code and executes it line by line. Code is read and executed at the same time.
   Source code ---> Execution(code converted into machine code right before execution and not before) ---> Program running

- Interpreted languages are much slower than compiled time languages

3. Just in time(JIT) compilation:
   Entire code is converted into machine code at once, and executed immediately.
   Source code ---> Compilation ---> Machine Code(not a portable file) ---> Execution(Happens immediately) ---> Program running
   1. Parsing/Reading the code into Abstract Syntax Tree(AST)
      Engine parse the code into a data structure called AST. The code is parsed into meaningful pieces and stored into the AST in a structured way. It also checks for any syntax errors. The resulting tree will be used to generate machine code. Look into PDF notes.
   2. Compilation:
      The generated AST is then converted into machine code.
   3. Execution:
      The machine code is executed right away. Execution happens in JS Engine Call stack

- JS Engine Optimization Strategy: It creates an unoptimized code so that the code is executed as soon as possible, then this machine code is being
  optimized by compiler again which replaces the previous unoptimized code, without ever stopping execution.
- This whole process is executed in a special thread separate from the main thread.

# JS Runtime

## In Browser runtime

- JS Runtime comprises of all the things that are important for the JavaScript code to be executed. It includes:

1. JavaScript Engine:

- The JS runtime is executed in JS engine.

2. Web API

- To work with JavaScript in the browser we need web API(DOM, timers, fetch, window functions etc..).
- Web API are not part of the JS engine. These Web API features are available to JS engine from the global window object.

3. Callback Queue

- A data structure that includes all the callback functions that are ready to be executed. For example the onClick, timer, data etc....
- We attach event handler functions with DOM elements like onClick function on a button, these event handlers are also called callback function.
- When the event handler is fired the callback event is stored in the callback queue then when the call stack is empty the onClick handler is moved in the call stack so that it can be executed.
- This is done with the help of event loop, it takes the function from callback queue and buts in the call stack. This is an example of JavaScript Single thread non-blocking concurrency model.

## Outside Browser Runtime(Node js)

- It is similar to browser but it does not have web api access, instead it uses C++ bindings and thread pool
