# High Level Overview of JavaScript

1. High level
   Any computer program needs computer resources like CPU, hardware etc. In low level language like C you have to manually manage these resources. But in high level language like JavaScript you do not have to worry about it, as it is controlled by abstraction.
2. Garbage Collector
   It takes away the trouble of memory management. Removes old unused objects from the memory
3. Interpreted or just in time compiled
   The human code is interpreted into machine code by interpreting and compiling in the JS engine.
4. Multi Paradigm
   Paradigm is an approach or mindset of structuring code, which direct coding style and technique.
   _ Procedural Paradigm: Organizing code in a linear way and using functions in between
   _ Object Oriented Paradigm: \* Functional Paradigm:
   Paradigm could be imperative and declarative. JS has all the paradigms.
5. Prototype based object oriented
   Almost everything in JS are objects, except for non-primitive data types. We create an array from array blueprint which is called prototype. This prototype contains all the
6. First class functions
   Functions are treated as variables. We can pass them to functions and return from functions.
7. Dynamic
   Variables don't have data type for variables.
8. Single Threaded (Non blocking event loop)
   Concurrency model: JS engine handles multiple tasks at the same time, because it runs in one single thread. It can do one thing at a time. Thread is a set of functions(code) executed in the computer CPU.
   If there is a long running task like calling data from API, it would block the single thread. However, we want non blocking behavior. We achieve that by using event loop. Takes long running tasks, executes them in background and puts them in the main thread, once they are finished. This is JavaScript Non blocking event loop concurrency model.
