# Execution Context

1. After code is compiled into machine code, it enters execution phase.
2. Here a global execution context is created for the top level code(code outside function, not inside the function).

## Example:

const name = "Jonas";

const first = () => {
let a = 1;
const b = second(7,9);
a = a + b;
return a;
}

function second (x,y) {
var c =2;
return c;
}

3. A global Execution context is an environment where a piece of JS code is executed. Stores all the necessary information for some code to be executed like local variables and arguments.
   
4. There is only one global execution context for the compiled code, that is not inside the function.

5. Then the execution of top level code is done inside the global context

6. After the execution of top level code, the execution of functions and methods happens as they are also functions attached to objects.

7. After all the functions are executed the engine will wait for the callbacks to arrive and will execute them. For example, a callback function attached with a handle click, the event loop provide the callback functions to the execution context.

8. All these execution contexts make up the call stack.

## Execution Context Structure

1. Variable Environment
   In this environment all the variables and functions that are present in the current execution context are stored.
   There is an argument object which contains all the arguments passed to the function that the current execution context belong to. Each function gets it separate execution context as the function is called.  
   A function can also access variables and functions outside of its environment by the use of scope chain.

2. Scope Chain
   It contains the references of variables and functions that are present outside the current function. To keep track of the variables it is stored in the scope chain in each execution context.

3. this keyword

- Execution context belonging to arrow functions do not get there arguments object and also this keyword. They can access these things from their closest regular parent function.

- All the above components are created during creation phase right before execution.

## Example:

const name = "Jonas";

const first = () => {
let a = 1;
const b = second(7,9);
a = a + b;
return a;
}

function second (x,y) {
var c =2;
return c;
}

const x = first()

1. There are three execution context in this code:

1. Global Execution Context:
   name = 'Jonas;
   first = <function>
   second =<function>
   x = <unknown> --> the value of x is the returned value of first function, values become known during execution. Therefore the first() needs to be executed.

1. First Function Execution Context:
   a = 1;
   b = <unknown> --> Need to execute second function

1. Second Function Execution Context:
   c = 2;
   arguments = [7,9]

- In a large code base where there are thousands of functions and execution context. It is hard to track the current execution context, thats where call stack comes in.

# Call Stack

- Call Stack + Memory Heap = JS Engine

1. Call Stack is a place where execution context get stacked on top of each other, to keep track of where we are in the execution.

2. The execution context that is on top of the call stack is the one that is currently running. Once the execution context has been executed it will be removed and execution will go back to the previous context.
