# Scoping

1. Scoping: How programs variables are organized and accessed. Where can we access a certain variable and where not?
2. Lexical Scoping: Scoping is controlled by placement of functions and block in the code.For example: A function written inside another function has access to all the variables of the parent function.
3. Scope: Space or environment in which a certain variable is declared. There are three scopes
   3.1 Global Scope
   3.2 Function Scope
   3.3 Block Scope (if else block and for loop block)
4. Scope of a variable: Region of our code where a certain variable can be accessed.

# Types of Scopes

1. Global Scope:
   - Top level code which is not present in any function or block.
   - Variables declared in global scope are accessible everywhere.
2. Function Scope:
   - Each function create its scope.
   - Variables declared in a function cannot be accessed outside of the function.
   - Function declaration, function expression and arrow function create their own scope.
3. Block Scope(ES6):
   - Everything in curly braces.
   - Variables declared in a block cannot be accessed outside of the block.
   - However, this only applies to let and const variables.
   - Variables declared with var can be accessed outside the scope. It will be scoped to the current function or to the global scope.
   - Functions are also block scoped in strict mode.

# Scope Chain

- A Scope has access to variables from all outer scopes.
- If a scope cannot find a variable in its block then it will look up for the variable in its upper scope. If it finds the variable then it will use it, else if it does not find the variable then it will return error. This is called variable look up.
- A certain scope will never have access to a variable in an inner scope.
- if a variables with var keyword is present
- If two scopes are siblings to each other then they cannot share variables between each other. None of them would have access to others variables.
- Scope chain only works upward and not sideward or downward.

# Summary

1. Scoping: Where do variables live? Where can we access a certain variable and where not?
2. Types of Scopes in: Global Scope, Function Scope, and Block Scope.
3. Only let and const variables are block scope. Variables declared with var end up in the closest function scope.
