# Primitive vs Reference Types

## Primitive Type

<code>
    let age = 30;</br>
    let oldAge = age; </br>
    age = 31;</br>
    console.log(oldAge); // 30</br>
    console.log(age); //31</br>
</code>

- Primitive Types are stored in call stack.
- When we define a variable with primitive value:
  1. A unique identifier is created by the name of variable.
  2. A piece of memory is allocated in the memory with a certain <b>address</b> and the value will be stored in the memory at the specified address.
  3. Identifier points to the address which holds the value and not the actual value.
  4. If we define a new variable and assign the previous variable to it, it will point to the same memory address.
  5. When we set the age to a new value, the value will not change on that address as another variable is pointing to the same address and therefor it is immutable, so a new address will be alloted to age in which the updated value.
  6. Now the oldAge is pointing to the age address and age is pointing to a new address.

## Reference Types

<code>
const me = {
    name:"Jonas",
    age:30,
}

const friend = me;
friend.age = 27;

console.log(me) // {age:27}
console.log(friend)//{age:27}
</code>

- Reference Types are stored in heap, and provide reference of the memory address to the call stack, because objects are too large to be stored in call stack.
- When we define a object with reference value:
  1. Object is stored in heap with a address, and a value.
  2. A unique identifier is created by the name of variable, in the call stack.
  3. The identifier does not directly points to the address in heap, instead it will point to a new address in call stack with the address of heap as its value.
  4. The piece of memory in call stack has a reference to the piece of memory in heap, which holds the object value.
  5. When me is assigned to friend, the friend variable points to the same address in call stack as that of the me object. Therefore if the value is updated by the friend object, me object value is also changed.
  6. Object's value defined with const are mutable because the object we are not changing the value in call stack, but we are changing the value in heap.
